# ctrlX Data Layer Provider

The app demonstrates how a __ctrlX Data Layer__ connection is established and a string and flatbuffers node are provided.

## Function Description

The app connects to the __ctrlX Data Layer__ and provides a string and flatbuffers node .

If the __ctrlX Data Layer__ connection breaks the app will exit. After 10s it will be automatically restarted by snapd.

## Preparation

This sample uses a flatbuffers node defined in sampleSchema.fbs.

For easy of use the project contains the according compiled files:

* sampleSchema.fbs: ./bfbs/sampleSchema.bfbs, ./sample/schema/InertialValue.py

With these compilation files the project can instantly debugged or snaps can be build.

If changes have been made to the definition files, the compiles must be regenerated. This is done by the script __make-bfbs.sh__.

The script can be called from the console:

    ./make-bfbs.sh

It can also be called from Visual Studio Code:

    Main menu -> Terminal --> Run Task... --> Make bfbs

## Implementation Description

### Definition Files

#### Flatbuffers

* sampleSchema.fbs: Defines a flatbuffers value (structed value). If changed compile it - see above.

### Modules

* The module __main.py__ manages the __ctrlX Data Layer__ connection and the creation of the __ctrlX Data Layer__ nodes.
* The module __helper/ctrlx_datalayer_helper.py__ Provides methods to easily establish a __ctrlX Data Layer__ connection.
* The module __app/my_provider_node.py__ contains the class MyProviderNode with the callback function needed by the __ctrlX Data Layer__.
* The module __sample/schema/InertialValue.py__ is generated by flatc from sampleSchema.fbs. It is used to manage the flatbuffers data struct.

___

## License

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Bosch Rexroth AG

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
