# ctrlX Data Layer Provider

The app demonstrates how a Data Layer connection is established and a string and flatbuffers node are provided.

## Function Description

The app connects to the ctrlX Data Layer and provides a string and flatbuffers node .

If the Data Layer connection breaks the app will exit. After 10s it will be automatically restarted by snapd.

## Preparation

This sample uses a flatbuffers node defined in sampleSchema.fbs and metadata information defined in metadata.csv.

For easy of use the project contains the according compiled files:

* sampleSchema.fbs: ./bfbs/sampleSchema.bfbs, ./schema/InertialValue.py
* metadata.csv: ./mddb/metadata.mddb

With these compilation files the project can instantly debugged or snaps can be build.

If changes have been made to the definition files, the compiles must be regenerated. This is done by the script __make-bfbs-mddb.sh__.

The script can be called from the console:

    ./make-bfbs-mddb.sh

It can also be called from Visual Studio Code:

    Main menu -> Terminal --> Run Task... --> make bfbs mddb


## Implementation Description

### Definition Files

#### Flatbuffers 

* sampleSchema.fbs: Defines a flatbuffers value (structed value). If changed compile it - see above.

#### Metadata

* metadata.csv: Defines metadata for the provided Data Layer nodes. If changed compile it - see above.
* metadata.mddb: Compiled information of metadata.csv.

### Modules

* The module __main.py__ manages the Data Layer connection and the creation of the Data Layer nodes.
* The module __helper/ctrlx_datalayer_helper.py__ Provides methods to easily establish a Data Layer connection.
* The module __app/my_provider_node.py__ contains the class MyProviderNode with the callback function needed by the Data Layer.
* The module __sample/schema/InertialValue.py__ is generated by flatc from sampleSchema.fbs. It is used to manage the flatbuffers data struct.

___

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Bosch Rexroth AG

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
